So now this brings us to,
we're gonna zoom out even further.
First we were zoomed in to,
within a JavaScript file,
what syntax and stuff can we use?
And then we zoomed out to, okay, now
imagine this file is a module in a more
complex package where
there's different modules,
there's dependencies,
they have dependencies, etc.
And now we're zooming out to, okay,
now how does this all work out?
Once we have this package and
we have everything set up, we've declared
the module type and everything, how do
we exist in a world where there is so
much going on related to the browser side,
the server side with node.
The package management side, which
sort of transcends both in many cases.
But essentially what we've got here is
we've got a blessing of the modern web,
which is that it gives us
phenomenal cosmic powers,
if anybody remembers Aladdin,
the animated version [LAUGH].
And also a little bit of a curse,
because we don't
want our web pages to be
spending half an hour
spinning up a website when I
try to load it from a URL.
So we also want to keep our
JavaScript very small and
we have an itty-bitty living space.
So we wanna pack all of
the possibilities of what we can do with
JavaScript on both sides of
the Internet into as small of a thing
as possible to protect both
resources that we're using and
how expensive running our JavaScript is.
And also make sure that, whether it's
on the command line with node or
in the backend or on the browser,
that users are not feeling the pain
of installing an entire Internet
worth of random people's code.
And every single bit and
byte of that information having to come
down over wires and whatnot before
they can actually do anything.
So yeah, so going back to our whole
historical evolution, we had,
all right, back in the day we got
one dude in a room at Netscape.
[LAUGH] Webpages,
just get a little JavaScript as a treat,
a little script tag here and
there, no big deal.
Then, through the node years,
and especially pre-ES modules,
we get a whole ecosystem of tooling
evolving to essentially take a whole
bunch of code that's written for
human software developers, like us.
Not that we're pretending to be humans,
or actually extraterrestrials or
anything, no.
The idea that we want to
take all of that stuff and
bundle it and prune it and
clip it and shake it and
do all kinds of things to
make sure that it is as tiny
as possible, as optimized as possible.
This is where we get things
like minification and
dropping unused bits of the code base and
all this stuff.
So this whole ecosystem evolves
of tooling in order to bundle and
optimize these apps that we're building.
And now we have massive JS progress,
there could be hundreds or
thousands, even, of modules in a codebase.
And we're also trying to run everything
as responsively and as inexpensively,
if we're running stuff on a server
on some cloud provider somewhere
where we're paying for every little
tick that that processor does.
[LAUGH] We want to be trying to manage
this complexity that has really grown
beyond the scope of, again,
what JavaScript, little good old little
script tag in the browser,
intended to be all those years ago.
So we find ourselves,
much like Homer Simpson,
looking at a map of the [LAUGH]
nuclear reactor where he works.
Just kind of staring down this massive,
infinite,
in some cases,
ecosystem of all these different tools and
all these different things
we need to do to just inject
a little script into the page
that we want to run the thing on.
And it's all good cuz the community came
up with some tools to do that stuff for
you, and frameworks to make your
life easier, and test things,
and bundle things up and all this stuff.
But [LAUGH] I don't even know
what half these logos are.
And some of them didn't
exist a few years ago,
some of them probably won't
exist in a few years.
This all starts to feel a little bit,
at least if you're me, if you're anything
like me, this starts to feel a little bit
less than, I have a helpful tool for that.
There's an app for that.
Yeah, there's a bajillion different tools,
what do I do?
[LAUGH] So coming into, as a JavaScript
developer, whether you're used to
working in another language where
there's one way to do things.
Or whether you're like me, coming in from
another industry and switching careers and
coming into this world of, my God,
there's all of these flashing buttons and
lights and things everywhere.
And everybody's shouting frameworks
on social media and blah,
blah, blah, what do we do?
And you start sobbing, sometimes.
Ideally not in the office, but it happens.
[LAUGH] I speak from experience.
So what what do we do?
How do we battle this overwhelm
that I think the entire community
agrees is now a fact of life as
[LAUGH] JavaScript developers?
And there's no easy answer to that, right?
As there is no easy answer to, what do you
do when a nuclear reactor is melting down?
Hopefully, not be there, but
[LAUGH] since we're gonna be in front of
our computers trying to deal with our
JavaScript hopefully not melting down.
What I say, personally in my
kind of way of trying to stay
afloat in this massive ocean
of developer ecosystem is,
all right,
there are a billion tools out there.
Well, maybe not literally,
but one billion, okay.
There's a lot of tools out there.
And yeah, we can get cozy with them,
but in general,
let's try to prioritize the things
like language features and
the higher level concepts of,
how do I wanna separate
the concerns in my code base?
How do I wanna expose
functionality to my users?
Those higher level principles, let's
keep those at the front of our mind and
not get hung up on the tools and
the tool battles.
Because tools come and go, and
the principles will kind
of be generally useful.
Even if, I don't know,
next year a whole new language
comes out that replaces JavaScript for
once and for all and
we go back and
do a whole bunch of other classes.
So [LAUGH] I don't think that's gonna
happen next year, but the idea being,
I've found it very helpful in the face
of all this overwhelm to stay focused on
the higher level concepts and
the principles behind all of it.
Which can be transferred even to
other languages and things, and
not just a particular JavaScript
framework, let's say.
Okay, that said, I also think,
like all cats, [LAUGH] that if you have
a tool that you're used to using, and
it works, and it fits your use case,
and it doesn't make you wanna rip
your hair out all the time, great.
There might be some other fancy thing that
some very loud Twitter user is making
you feel all this FOMO about, but if
your needs are being met as a developer,
if that cat fits in that box,
it sits, it's good.
It's fine, just keep doing your thing.
Just get on with our lives.
If we spent as much time as we
theoretically could with the amount of
information on the Internet, trying to
learn every new tool that comes out and
evaluate whether it's better than
our old tool and blah, blah blah,
we would never get anything done,
we would never write a line of code.
So let's just keep using
whatever's working for us.
However, if it is not working for us,
let us not keep forcing ourselves,
shoehorning ourselves into tools
that are really painful for
us or for our colleagues or
whoever to use, or our users.
Let's stay open to new things happening
and us having to learn new things.
In web development,
that is just a fact of our lives,
we're gonna have to keep learning about
new stuff coming out all the time.
So that's what I say.